# zkEmailAuth
Creating Email Verified Anonymous Identities using Zero Knowledge Proof

## About the Project
Anonymous identities are of prime importance today for applications that promise privacy and anonymity to its users. 
However, often there is a need for these applications to confirm if their users are authentic, i.e, 
probably belong to a certain group or an organization. One of the possible methods to confirm this would be to verify the user's email, 
without compromising on the user's anonymity. zkEmailAuth project aims to achieve the same.

## How It Works
The methodology employs 2 phases to achieve email verification without compromising on the anonymity of the user. The user first connects his wallet to the application 
to begin the verification procedure.

### Phase 1
In Phase 1, user submits his email address and a secret numeric password. The public key and secret password are hashed together to create an intermediate hash and sent to a backend server. 
The backend server generates a cryptographically secure random string and hashes it further to the intermediate hash to generate the final public hash. This public hash is returned to the front end and displayed to the user. Additionally, it is also stored on chain.
The random string generated at the server is then sent over email to the address specified by the user. Also, user generates an anonymous identity using Semaphore in this stage and the identity commitment is stored on the browser.

### Phase 2
User needs to produce the following in Phase 2 - the public hash generated in Phase 1 (this needs to be same as the one stored on chain), the secret numeric password used by the user in Phase 1 
and the random string received over user's email. These inputs are then provided as inputs to verify proof generated by a circuit to ensure that the user has not cheated and that this user is same as the one who submitted the data in Phase 1.
If the proof verification is successful, the information that user's anonymous identity (stored in browser in Phase 1) is email-verified is commited on chain and is visible for anybody to verify.


## Project Structure
The project consists of three folders
1) circuits - contains the circuit written in Circom which helps generate the proof
2) contracts - contains the main contract and verify contract files along with tests
3) frontend - NextJS project with the front end and server for sending email
Refer to each folders to understand how to use them.

## How to Run Locally
Clone the repository
```shell
git clone https://github.com/suhasBR/zku-final-project.git
```
Compile Circuits
```shell
cd circuits
```
Follow instructions given in circuits folder to compile circuits

Run Contracts
```shell
cd contracts
```
Follow instructions given in contracts folder

Run Frontend
Enter frontend
```shell
cd frontend
```

Install Dependencies
```shell
yarn i
```

Run Dev Server
```shell
yarn dev
```


